Accessibility Features for Advanced Mathematics in the new MathJax Version 3

MathJax is a Javascript library for TeX-like typesetting of Mathematics on the
web. Since its beginnings one of its goals is to provide accessibility support
for blind and visual impaired people; either by supporting third party assistive
technology or, more recently, via it's own integrated accessibility extension.

In MathJax's new version 3 the accessibility extension is not only again an
important aspect but has been considerably improved in terms of the information
it can provide on formulas. With support from the Simons Foundation we developed
improved semantic recognition of source material as well as means to exploit
context information in documents. One particular emphasis is to provide better
accessibility to advanced mathematical material exploiting information gained
from the original LaTeX code, to provide more appropriate speech for different
areas of Mathematics but also for subjects like Physics, Chemistry and Logic.
Our aim is to ease the study of mathematics for more people with visual
impairments as well as to encourage subject specialists to contribute via better
authored content, semantically meaningful LaTeX packages, and expert knowledge
for speech generation.

----------------------

With more and more mathematical teaching material being made available online,
its accessible representation is a major concern. And while formulas on the web
can be represented in MathML, no major browser completely implements this
standard. Consequently the MathJax library that provides a solution to render
Mathematics in any browser, has become a quasi-standard for displaying
Mathematics on the web.

As MathJax has undergone a major reimplementation effort over the last two years
we will present the accessibility features provided in the new version, which
include:

* Automatic voicing of formulas
* Interactive navigation with synchronised highlighting
* Different collections of speech rules like MathSpeak and ClearSpeak
* Nemeth Braille output

We will also demonstrate how mathematical teaching material can be converted
into web documents renderable with MathJax, and how the preservation of the
original LaTeX sources can lead to an improved accessibility experience.

